                   BODY OF KNOWLEDGE for the
       ASQ CERTIFIED QUALITY PROCESS ANALYST (CQPA) – 2026
  Included in this Body of Knowledge (BoK) are explanations (subtext) and cognitive levels for
  each topic or subtopic in the test. These details will be used by the Examination Development
  Committee as guidelines for writing test questions and are designed to help candidates prepare
  for the exam by identifying specific content within each topic that can be tested. Except where
  specified, the subtext is not intended to limit the subject or be all-inclusive of what might be
  covered in an exam but is intended to clarify how topics are related to the role of the Certified
  Quality Process Analyst (CQPA). The descriptor in parentheses at the end of each subtext entry
  refers to the highest cognitive level at which the topic will be tested. A complete description of
  cognitive levels is provided at the end of this document.


I. Quality Concepts and Team Dynamics (22 Questions)
   A. Professional Conduct and Ethics
      Identify and apply behaviors that are aligned with the ASQ Code of Ethics. (Apply)
   B. Quality Concepts
      1. Quality
         Describe how using quality techniques to improve processes, products, and services can
         benefit all parts of an organization. Describe what quality means to various stakeholders
         (e.g., employees, organization, customers, suppliers, community) and how each can
         benefit from quality. (Understand)
       2. Leadership commitment
          Understand why leadership commitment is critical to quality success, including
          providing resources, reinforcing continuous improvement, and fostering communication
          with all stakeholders. (Understand)
       3. Communicating quality
          Understand how to communicate the importance of quality to the organization and how
          to translate quality outcomes, such as data trends and process performance, into clear
          actionable items. (Apply)
       4. Quality planning
          Define a quality plan, describe its purpose for the organization, and know who has
          responsibility for contributing to its development. (Understand)
       5. Quality standards, requirements, and specifications
          Define and distinguish between national or international standards, customer
          requirements, and product or process specifications. (Understand)
       6. Quality documentation
          Identify and describe common elements of various document control systems, including
          configuration management. Describe the relationship between quality manuals,
          procedures, and work instructions. (Understand)




                                            Page 1 of 8
   7. Cost of quality (COQ)
      Define and describe the four cost of quality categories: prevention, appraisal, internal
      failure, and external failure. (Apply)
C. Quality Audits
   1. Audit types
      Define and distinguish between basic audit types, such as internal and external audits;
      product, process, and systems audits; and first-, second-, and third-party audits.
      (Understand)
   2. Audit components
      Identify various elements of the audit process, including audit purpose and scope, the
      standard to audit against, audit planning (preparation) and performance, opening and
      closing meetings, final audit report, and verification of corrective actions. (Understand)
   3. Audit roles and responsibilities
      Identify and describe the roles and responsibilities of key audit participants, including
      lead auditor, audit team member, client, and auditee. (Understand)
D. Team Dynamics and Processes
   1. Types of teams
      Distinguish between various types of teams, including process improvement teams,
      work groups/work cells, self-managed teams, temporary/ad hoc project teams, cross-
      functional teams, and remote teams. (Analyze)
   2. Team development
      Identify various elements in team building, such as inviting team members to share
      information about themselves during the initial meeting, using ice-breaker activities to
      enhance team membership, and developing a common vision and agreement on team
      objectives. (Apply)
   3. Team stages
      Describe the classic stages of team evolution: forming, storming, norming, performing,
      and adjourning. (Understand)
   4. Team roles and responsibilities
      Describe the roles and responsibilities of various team stakeholders, including sponsor,
      champion, facilitator, team leader, and team member. (Understand)
   5. Effective team meetings
      Identify and apply elements of effective meetings, including agendas, meeting minutes,
      action items, and due dates. (Apply)
   6. Team conflict
      Identify common group challenges, including groupthink, members with hidden and/or
      competing agendas, intentional distractions, and other disruptive behaviors. Describe
      ways of resolving these issues and keeping team members on task. (Understand)




                                       Page 2 of 8
    E. Training and Evaluation
       Describe various elements of training, including linking the training to organizational
       goals, identifying training needs, adapting information to meet adult learning styles, and
       using coaching and peer training methods. Describe various tools to measure the
       effectiveness of the training, including post-training feedback, end-of-course tests, and
       individual and department performance improvement measures. (Understand)


II. Quality Tools and Process Improvement Techniques (29 Questions)
    A. Process Improvement Concepts and Approaches
       Define and explain elements of Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA), kaizen activities, incremental
       and breakthrough improvement, and DMAIC phases (define, measure, analyze, improve,
       control). (Apply)
    B. Basic Quality Tools
       Select, construct, apply, and interpret the seven basic quality tools: 1) cause and effect
       diagrams, 2) flowcharts (process maps), 3) check sheets, 4) Pareto charts, 5) scatter
       diagrams, 6) run charts and control charts, and 7) histograms. (Evaluate)
    C. Process Improvement Techniques
       1. Lean
          Identify and apply lean concepts and tools, including set-up reduction (SUR), pull
          (including just-in-time (JIT) and kanban), 5S, continuous flow manufacturing (CFM),
          value-added analysis, value stream mapping, theory of constraints (TOC), poka-yoke,
          and total productive/predictive maintenance (TPM) to reduce waste in areas of cost,
          inventory, labor, and distance. (Apply)
       2. Six Sigma
          Identify key Six Sigma concepts, including variation reduction, voice of the customer
          (VOC), and the roles and responsibilities of the belt levels (yellow belt, green belt, black
          belt, and master black belt). (Apply)
       3. Benchmarking
          Define benchmarking and describe how it can be used to develop and support best
          practices. (Understand)
       4. Risk management
          Recognize the types of risk that can occur throughout the organization, such as
          scheduling, shipping/receiving, financials, operations and supply chain, employee and
          user safety, and regulatory compliance and changes. Describe risk control and mitigation
          methods, including avoidance, reduction, prevention, segregation, and transfer.
          (Understand)
       5. Business process management (BPM)
          Define and describe business process management, including the business process
          lifecycle phases (Design, Modeling, Execution, Monitoring, and Optimization).
          (Understand)




                                            Page 3 of 8
     D. Management and Planning
        1. Quality management tools
           Select and apply quality management tools, including affinity diagrams, tree diagrams,
           process decision program charts, matrix diagrams, interrelationship digraphs,
           prioritization matrices, and activity network diagrams. (Apply)
         2. Project management tools
            Select and interpret project management tools, such as Gantt charts, program evaluation
            and review technique (PERT), work breakdown structure (WBS), and critical path
            method (CPM). (Apply)
         3. Project management approaches
            Understand traditional and agile project management approaches and when each is
            appropriate. (Understand)
         4. Change management
            Understand basic change management concepts, including the importance of
            communication, employee involvement, leadership support, and strategies to reduce
            resistance and sustain improvements. (Understand)


III. Data Analysis (33 Questions)
     A. Basic Concepts
        1. Basic statistics
           Define, calculate, and interpret measures of central tendency (mean, median, mode) and
           measures of dispersion (standard deviation, range, variance). (Analyze)
         2. Basic distributions
            Define and explain frequency distributions (normal, binomial, Poisson, and Weibull)
            and the characteristics of skewed and bimodal distributions. (Understand)
         3. Probability concepts
            Describe and use probability concepts, such as independent and mutually exclusive
            events, combinations, permutations, additive and multiplicative rules, and conditional
            probability. Perform basic probability calculations. (Apply)
         4. Reliability concepts
            Define basic reliability concepts, such as mean time to failure (MTTF), mean time
            between failures (MTBF), mean time between maintenance (MTBM), and mean time to
            repair (MTTR). Identify elements of the bathtub curve model and how they are used to
            predict failure patterns. (Remember)
     B. Data Types, Collection, and Integrity
        1. Measurement scales
           Define and use nominal, ordinal, interval, and ratio measurement scales. (Apply)
         2. Data types
            Identify, define, and classify data in terms of continuous (variables) and discrete
            (attributes or counts). Determine when it is appropriate to convert attributes data to
            variables measures. (Apply)



                                            Page 4 of 8
   3. Data collection and analysis
      Identify and describe the advantages of collecting and analyzing real-time data.
      (Understand)
   4. Data quality and integrity
      Understand data quality attributes, such as accuracy, completeness, consistency,
      timeliness, and relevance. Recognize methods that verify data validity and reliability
      from source through data analysis using various techniques, such as auditing trails,
      vendor qualification, error detection software, training for record management etc., to
      prevent and detect data integrity issues. (Apply)
   5. Data plotting
      Identify the advantages and limitations of using data plotting to analyze data visually.
      (Understand)
C. Sampling
   1. Sampling methods
      Define and distinguish between various sampling methods, such as random, sequential,
      stratified, systemic/fixed sampling, rational subgroup sampling, and attributes and
      variables sampling. (Understand)
   2. Acceptance sampling
      Identify and define sampling characteristics, such as lot size, sample size, acceptance
      number, and operating characteristic (OC) curve. Understand when to use the
      probability approach to acceptance sampling. (Understand)
D. Measurement System Analysis
   Define and distinguish between accuracy, precision, repeatability and reproducibility
   (gage R&R) studies, bias, and linearity. (Apply)
E. Statistical Process Control (SPC)
   1. Fundamental concepts
      Distinguish between control limits and specification limits, and between process
      stability and process capability. (Apply)
   2. Rational subgroups
      Explain and apply the principles of rational subgroups. (Apply)
   3. Control charts for attributes data
      Identify, select, and interpret control charts (p, np, c, and u) for data that is measured as
      discrete attributes or discrete counts. (Analyze)
   4. Control charts for variables data
      Identify, select, and interpret control charts (X̅ – R, X̅ – s, and XmR) for data that is
      measured on a continuous scale. (Analyze)
   5. Common and special cause variation
      Interpret various control chart patterns (e.g., runs, hugging, and trends) to determine
      process control and use SPC rules to distinguish between common cause and special
      cause variation. (Analyze)




                                        Page 5 of 8
        6. Process capability measures
           Describe the conditions that must be met to measure capability. Calculate Cp, Cpk, Pp,
           and Ppk measures and interpret their results. (Analyze)
     F. Advanced Statistical Analysis
        1. Regression and correlation models
           Describe how these models are used for estimation and prediction. (Apply)
        2. Hypothesis testing
           Calculate confidence intervals using t tests and the z statistic and determine whether the
           result is significant. (Analyze)
        3. Design of experiments (DOE)
           Define and explain basic DOE terms, such as response, factors, levels, treatment,
           interaction effects, randomization, error, and blocking. (Understand)
        4. Taguchi concepts and methods
           Identify and describe Taguchi concepts, such as quality loss function, robustness,
           controllable and uncontrollable factors, and signal to noise ratio. (Understand)


IV. Customer-Supplier Relations (10 Questions)
     A. Internal and External Customers and Suppliers
        Define and distinguish between internal and external customers and suppliers. Describe
        their impact on products, services, and processes, and identify strategies for collaborating
        with them to make improvements. (Apply)
     B. Customer Satisfaction Methods
        Describe the different types of tools used to gather customer feedback, such as surveys,
        focus groups, complaint forms, and warranty analysis. Explain key elements of quality
        function deployment (QFD) for understanding and translating the voice of the customer.
        (Understand)
     C. Product and Process Approval Systems
        Describe how validation and qualification methods, including beta testing, first-article, in-
        process, and final inspection are used to approve new or updated products, processes, and
        services. (Apply)
     D. Supplier Management
        1. Supplier selection
           Describe and outline criteria for selecting, approving, and classifying suppliers,
           including internal rating programs, external certification standard requirements, and
           environmental/social responsibility. (Understand)
        2. Supplier performance
           Describe supplier performance in terms of measures, such as quality (e.g., defect rates,
           functional performance), price, delivery speed, delivery reliability, level of service, and
           technical support. Understand performance monitoring and improvement tools, such as
           supplier audits and supplier corrective action requests (SCARs). (Understand)




                                            Page 6 of 8
    E. Material Identification, Status, and Traceability
       Describe the importance of identifying material by lot, batch, source, and conformance
       status, including impact for recalls. Describe key requirements for preserving the identity
       of a product and its origin. Use various methods to segregate nonconforming material and
       process it according to procedures. (Apply)


V. Corrective and Preventive Action (CAPA) (6 Questions)
    A. Corrective Action
       Demonstrate key elements of the corrective action process: identify the problem, contain
       the problem, determine the root causes, propose solutions to eliminate and prevent their
       recurrence, verify that the solutions are implemented, and confirm their effectiveness.
       (Apply)
    B. Preventive Action
       Demonstrate key elements of a preventive action process: track data trends and patterns,
       use failure mode and effects analysis (FMEA), review product and process monitoring
       reports, and study the process to identify potential failures, defects, or deficiencies.
       Improve the process by developing error/mistake-proofing methods and procedural
       changes, verify that the changes are made, and confirm their effectiveness. (Apply)




                                          Page 7 of 8
                                    Levels of Cognition
                        Based on Bloom’s Taxonomy – Revised (2001)

In addition to content specifics, the subtext for each topic in this BOK also indicates the
intended complexity level of the test questions for that topic. These levels are based on “Levels
of Cognition” (from Bloom’s Taxonomy – Revised, 2001) and are presented below in rank order,
from least complex to most complex.

Remember
Recall or recognize terms, definitions, facts, ideas, materials, patterns, sequences, methods,
principles, etc.

Understand
Read and understand descriptions, communications, reports, tables, diagrams, directions,
regulations, etc.

Apply
Know when and how to use ideas, procedures, methods, formulas, principles, theories, etc.

Analyze
Break down information into its constituent parts and recognize their relationship to one another
and how they are organized; identify sublevel factors or salient data from a complex scenario.

Evaluate
Make judgments about the value of proposed ideas, solutions, etc., by comparing the proposal to
specific criteria or standards.

Create
Put parts or elements together in such a way as to reveal a pattern or structure not clearly there
before; identify which data or information from a complex set is appropriate to examine further
or from which supported conclusions can be drawn.




                                          Page 8 of 8
